doc: Document Debug Panel and Telemetry Popover (#13818)
microsoft/fluentui: packages/fluentui/docs/src/pages/Debugging.mdx

export const meta = {
  title: 'Debugging',
  previous: { name: 'Performance', url: 'performance' },
};

## Overview

> Fluent UI provides tools for developers to debug styles and measure performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fluent UI provides set of tools for debugging styles and measuring performance.
```

## Debugging styles

### How merging works

> As it was described in [Theming](/theming), a theme consists of three different building blocks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As it was described in [Theming](/theming), the main three different building blocks of the theme are:
```

These are not the only parts of the theme, so let's rephrase a bit

1. Site variables,
2. Component variables,
3. Component styles (for individual component slots).

> Themes can be nested, component variables and styles can be overriden in a component instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways of how the theme can be overridden: by nesting a different theme, or by overriding variables/styles in a component instance:
```

```jsx
<Provider theme={outerTheme}>
    <Provider theme={innerTheme}>
        <Component variables={componentVariablesOverrides} design={designStyleOverrides} styles={componentStyleOverrides} />
    </Provider>
</Provider>
```

In order to compute CSS styles, all the theme pieces are merged:

> ![Merge order](public/images/merge-themes.png)

Reviewer: Love it ❤️

> 1. First, site variables are merged together,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, site variables are merged together.
```

> 2. Merged site variables are passed as input to component variables, resolved component variables are merged together,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Merged site variables are passed as input to component variables, resolved component variables are merged together.
```

> 3. Merged component variables (as well as merged site variables) are passed as input to component styles, resolved component styles are merged together,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Merged component variables (as well as merged site variables) are passed as input to component styles, resolved component styles are merged together.
```

> 4. Merges component styles for each component slot are passed to CSSInJS renderer to process the styles with plugins (RTL, expand, vendor prefixing), generate CSS classes and add the styles to DOM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Merged component styles for each component slot are passed to CSSInJS renderer to process the styles with plugins (RTL, expand, vendor prefixing), generate CSS classes and add the styles to DOM.
```

> As the merged component styles are processes by CSSInJS and the way how those are added to DOM is CSSInJS specific (Fela uses atomic CSS classes adding a class for each CSS attribute) it might be difficult to debug the styles using browser's development tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the merged component styles are processed by CSSInJS and the way how those are added to DOM is CSSInJS specific (Fela uses atomic CSS classes adding a class for each CSS attribute) it might be difficult to debug the styles using browser's development tools.
```

### Fluent UI Styles Debug panel

For that reason Fluent UI contains a Debug panel which displays the whole processing chain from bottom to top to final *merged component styles*:

![Debug panel](public/images/debug-panel.png)

### Enabling Debug panel in an application

1. Add `<Debug />` component anywhere in your application.
2. Run a development build of the application.
3. Enable Fluent UI debugging by setting `fluentUIDebug` to `true` in local storage. To do that, run the following command in your DevTools:

```js
window.localStorage.fluentUIDebug = true
```

4. Reload the application
5. Now you can select your component to debug:

>     - press Alt+Shift+D - that will start a selection mode (similar to DevTools), hover over the component and left click to show the debug panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - press Alt+Shift+D (Cmd+Shift+D) - that will start a selection mode (similar to DevTools), hover over the component and left click to show the debug panel.
```

Author: No, it is Alt+Shift+D on Mac as well.

    - if it is not possible to select the component using mouse, you can also select the component in React DevTools and run `openDebugPanel()` in DevTools console.

*If custom theme is used, wrap the theme object using `withDebugId` to name the theme in Debug panel:*
```jsx
import { withDebugId } from '@Fluent UI/react-northstar';

const theme = withDebugId(themeObject, 'themeName');
```

## Measuring performance

> Both Browser and React DevTools provide developers with great tools to measure performance. Fluent UI adds its own Telemetry popover to give developers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both browser and React DevTools provide developers with great tools to measure performance. Fluent UI adds its own Telemetry popover to give developers
```

To improve performance, Fluent UI caches the styles and classes. **Cache hits** column shows how effective the cache is for individual component - for its root slot (**root**) as well as for the other slots (**slots**).

You can sort the table by any column or filter by component name. You can start/stop collecting the telemetry, tune performance flags.
All the configuration is persisted to local storage so that you can refresh the page and measure initial application load.

### Performance flags
Telemetry popover allows you to set Performance flags for the whole tree wrapped by the `TelemetryPopover`:

- **enableStylesCaching** - Caches styles for a component. When a component with the same "style significant props" is rendered, the whole
styling pipeline, including CSSInJS is skipped and cached styles/classes are used. *Styles are cached only if there are no inline `variables`, `design` or `styles` overrides passed to the component.
(This can be tweaked by setting `enableBooleanVariablesCaching`)*.

> - **enableVariablesCaching** - caches merged component variables.

Reviewer: I wish we had a better term to describe that this are the theme variables, rather then component variables...
